Time Line-

1.08/2016- first phublish of stolen hacking tools (malware, private exploits, and hacking tools) from "Equation Group"
asking 1M bitcions in auction (= 568M dollars)

2. 08/2016 - FBI arrests Harold Thomas ,former contractor of NSA,for stealing 50TB of secret and top secret data from NSA
The stolen data also include the personal information of government employees. The stolen documents date from between 1996 through 2016.
The New York Times reported that the stolen documents also included the NSA's top secret hacking tools posted online by Shadow Brokers


3.10/2016 - The Shadow Brokers published more files ,and this time the group dumped a list of foreign servers allegedly compromised by the NSA-linked hacking unit,
 Equation Group, in various countries to expand its espionage operations.
 306 domain names, and 352 IP addresses belong to at least 49 countries.
The top 10 targeted countries include China, Japan, Korea, Spain, Germany, India, Taiwan, Mexico, Italy, and Russia.
Most of the affected servers were running Unix-based operating system.
The data dump also contains references to a list of previously undisclosed Equation Group tools, including Dewdrop, Incision, Orangutan, Jackladder, Reticulum, Patchicillin, Sidetrack and Stoicsurgeon.

A message accompanying the leaked data dump calls for attempts to disrupt the forthcoming United States presidential election.(8.11.2016):
"TheShadowBrokers is having suggestion. On November 8th, instead of not voting, maybe be stopping the vote all together? Maybe being grinch who stopped the election from coming? Maybe hacking election is being the best idea? #hackelection2016."

4.1/2017 - The hacking group is now selling another package of hacking tools,which includes Windows exploits and antivirus bypass tools, stolen from the NSA-linked hacking unit, The Equation Group. 
he data dump contains many windows hacking tools, categorized as following:
Fuzzing tools (used to discover errors and security loopholes)
Exploit Framework
Network Implants
Remote Administration Tools (RAT)
Remote Code Execution Exploits for IIS, RDP, RPC, SMB Protocols (Some Zero-Days)
SMB BackDoor (Implant)

The Remote Administration Tool (RAT) "DanderSpritz" included in the list is the one previously leaked in the NSA's documents revealed by Edward Snowden.

5. 2/2017 - Last weekend a security researcher publically disclosed a zero-day vulnerability in Windows 10, Windows 8.1 and Server editions after Microsoft failed to patch it in the past three months.
The zero-day memory corruption flaw resides in the implementation of the SMB (server message block) network file sharing protocol that could allow a remote, unauthenticated attacker to crash systems with denial of service attack, which would then open them to more possible attacks.
According to US-CERT, the vulnerability could also be exploited to execute arbitrary code with Windows kernel privileges on vulnerable systems, but this has not been confirmed right now by Microsoft

6.0 4/2017 - a massive trove of Windows hacking tools allegedly stolen from NSA that works against almost all versions of Windows, from Windows 2000 and XP to Windows 7 and 8.

6.1 4/2017 - Shadow Brokers released today more alleged 23 hacking tools and exploits.
The latest dump comprises of 3 folders: Windows, Swift, and OddJob.

the Windows folder holds many hacking tools against Windows operating system, but works against only older version of Windows (Windows XP) and Server 2003.
Another folder, named OddJob, contains a Windows-based implant and includes alleged configuration files and payloads
Some of the Windows exploits were even undetectable on online file scanning service VirusTotal.

The SWIFT folder contains PowerPoint presentations, evidence, credentials and internal architecture of EastNets, one of the largest SWIFT Service Bureau in the Middle East.
SWIFT (Society for Worldwide Interbank Telecommunication) is a global financial messaging system that thousands of banks and organizations across the world use to transfer billions of dollars every day.
The folder includes SQL scripts that search for information from the Oracle Database like the list of database users and the SWIFT message queries.
Besides this, the folder also contains Excel files that indicate that the NSA's elite cyber attack unit Equation Group had hacked and gained access to many banks around the world, the majority of which are located in the Middle East like UAE, Kuwait, Qatar, Palestine, and Yemen.
In an official statement published EastNets denies that its SWIFT bureau was compromised, and says the reports of hack are "totally false and unfounded."

Hacking tool, called Eternalromance, contains an easy-to-use interface and exploits Windows systems over TCP ports 445 and 139.
The most noteworthy exploit in the Friday's dump is Eternalblue — an SMBv1 (Server Message Block 1.0) exploit that could cause older versions of Windows to execute code remotely.(•Video)
Microsoft security team says most of the windows vulnerabilities exploited by these hacking tools, including EternalBlue, EternalChampion, EternalSynergy, EternalRomance and others, are already patched in the last month's Patch Tuesday update.
 Microsoft told it that the company had not been contacted by any "individual or organization," in relation to the hacking tools and exploits released by the Shadow Brokers.
The vulnerabilities have already been patched by Microsoft, which acknowledges all security researchers for reporting the issues in its products, but, interesting, there are no acknowledgments(•Picture) for MS17-010 which patched most of the critical flaws from the Shadow Brokers dump.
No patches for XP !


7. 5/2017 -  ransomware campaign hit computer systems of hundreds of private companies and public organizations across the globe – which is believed to be the most massive ransomware delivery campaign to date.
The Ransomware in question has been identified as a variant of ransomware known as WannaCry.
WannaCry attackers are leveraging a Windows exploit harvested from the NSA called EternalBlue, which was dumped by the Shadow Brokers hacking group over a month ago.
Microsoft released a patch for the vulnerability in March (MS17-010), but many users and organizations who did not patch their systems are open to attacks.
The exploit has the capability to penetrate into machines running unpatched version of Windows XP through 2008 R2 by exploiting flaws in Microsoft Windows SMB Server. This is why WannaCry campaign is spreading at an astonishing pace.
Once a single computer in your organization is hit by the WannaCry ransomware, the worm looks for other vulnerable computers and infects them as well.
In just a few hours, the ransomware targeted over 45,000 computers in 74 countries.
, the ransomware attack has shut down work at 16 hospitals across the UK after doctors got blocked from accessing patient files. 


7.1 5/2017 - Microsoft has just released an emergency security patch update for all its unsupported version of Windows, including Windows XP, Vista, Windows 8, Server 2003 and 2008 Editions.(•picture)

7.2 5/2017 -  kill switch was triggered by the 22-years-old British security researcher behind the twitter handle 'MalwareTech.'(•picture from twitter)
MalwareTech accidentally halted the global spread of WannaCry by registering a domain name hidden in the malware.(•picture of code)
The above-mentioned domain is responsible for keeping WannaCry propagating and spreading like a worm, as I previously explained that if the connection to this domain fails, the SMB worm proceeds to infect the system.
Fortunately, MalwareTech registered this domain in question and created a sinkhole – tactic researchers use to redirect traffic from the infected machines to a self-controlled system. https://www.malwaretech.com/2017/05/how-to-accidentally-stop-a-global-cyber-attacks.html
Since the kill-switch feature was in the SMB worm, not in the ransomware module itself., "WannaCrypt ransomware was spread normally long before this and will be long after, what we stopped was the SMB worm variant," MalwareTech told The Hacker News.

7.3 5/2017 -  Costin Raiu, the director of global research and analysis team at Kaspersky Labs, that his team had seen more WannaCry samples on Friday that did not have the kill switch.
Raiu from Kaspersky shared some samples, his team discovered, with Suiche, who analysed them and just confirmed that there is a WannaCrypt variant without kill switch, and equipped with SMB exploit that would help it to spread rapidly without disruption.
What's even worse is that the new WannaCry variant without a kill-switch believed to be created by someone else, and not the hackers behind the initial WannaCry ransomware.
 However, Suiche also confirmed that the modified variant with no kill switch is corrupted, but this doesn't mean that other hackers and criminals would not come up with a working one.(•new picture)

Q- 
1. Does Harold Thomas moved the stolen data to Shadow Brokers ?
2. what happend to Harold Thomas?
3. what happend before what, Harols Tomas arresred or first publish of Shadow Brokers ?
4. what are IIS, RDP, RPC, SMB Protocols (4)
5. when Snowden leaked its information?